h1. ExpressionEngine YouVersion Plugin

The YouVersion ExpressionEngine plugin gives you the ability to quickly link to Bible verses using a simple tag structure that's familiar to ExpressionEngine. This plugin was originally written by Dan Frist ("@danfrist":http://twitter.com/danfrist) "for WordPress":http://blog.youversion.com/post/583/new-youversion-wordpress-plugin-available-now and was ported over to ExpressionEngine by Erik Reagan ("@erikreagan":http://twitter.com/erikreagan).

*Compatible with both ExpressionEngine 1.6.x and ExpressionEngine 2.x*

h2. Instructions

* *EE 1.6.x:* Copy <code>youversion/pi.youversion.php</code> to your <code>system/plugins</code> directory
* *EE 2.x:* Copy the <code>youversion</code> directory to you <code>system/expressionengine/third_party</code> directory

Also, there's a great "how-to" by "Jason Isaacs":http://twitter.com/jasonisaacs on the YouVersion support board that walks through giving your users [youversion] buttons on the edit page. You can find that here: "How to install and best use the ExpressionEngine/Youversion Plugin":http://support.youversion.com/entries/132775-how-to-install-and-best-use-the-expressionengine-youversion-plugin

h2. Usage

By wrapping your content in <code>{exp:youversion}</code> tags you can automatically link up scripture references to youversion.com.

h3. Examples

In-template reference:
<pre><code>{exp:youversion}[youversion]John 3:16[/youversion]{/exp:youversion}</code></pre>

Link all references in a custom field (where your custom field could contain "[youversion]John 3:16[/youversion]"):
<pre><code>{exp:youversion version="nkjv"}{content_body}{/exp:youversion}</code></pre>

h3. Versions / Translations

By default NIV will be used for the version. You can specify your version preference by adding the parameter version="" and using one of these versions:

<pre>
bg1940        Bulgarian 1940 
csbkr         Czech Bible Kralicka 1613 
elb           Elberfelder Bibel 
delut         Luther Bible 1545 
asv           American Standard Version 
amp           Amplified Bible 
cev           Contemporary English Version 
esv           English Standard Version 
gwt           GOD'S WORD Translation 
hcsb          Holman Christian Standard Bible 
kjv           King James Version 
net           New English Translation 
nasb          New American Standard Bible 
ncv           New Century Version 
niv           New International Version 
nkjv          New King James Version 
tniv          Today's New International Version 
nlt           New Living Translation 
msg           The Message 
web           World English Bible 
lbla          La Biblia de las Americas 
nblh          Nueva Biblia de los Hispanos 
nvi           Nueva Version Internacional 
rves          Reina-Valera Antigua 
finpr         Finnish 1938 
lsg           Louis Segond 
idbar         Terjemahan Baru 
itriv         Italian Riveduta (1927) 
ja1955        Colloquial Japanese (1955) 
sv1750        Statenvertaling 
norsk         Det Norsk Bibelselskap 1930 
aa            Almeida Atualizada 
rmnn          Romanian Cornilescu 1928 
sven          Svenska 1917 
vi1934        1934 Vietnamese Bible
</pre>


h2. Notes

Remember to spell the verse reference properly and use the commonly accepted format for Bible references (ie. John 3:16). The reference formats that work are "John 3:16" and "John 3:16-18". References that use commas (ie. John 3:16,18) or multi-chapter spans (ie. John 3:16-4:5) will not work and will result in a link that leads to a dead page on YouVersion.com.


h2. Parameters

<code>version=""</code>
Chooses the version/translation of the Bible to link to on YouVersion.com (see available versions and respective abbreviations above). The version will default to New International Version (niv)

<code>class=""</code>
Define's the anchor tag's class. The class will default to "youversion_link".


h2. Acceptable book names

+*Old Testament*+
* Genesis
* Exodus
* Leviticus
* Numbers
* Deuteronomy
* Joshua
* Judges
* Ruth
* 1 Samuel
* 2 Samuel
* 1 Kings
* 2 Kings
* 1 Chronicles
* 2 Chronicles
* Ezra
* Nehemiah
* Esther
* Job
* Psalms
* Proverbs
* Ecclesiastes
* Song of Solomon
* Isaiah
* Jeremiah
* Lamentations
* Ezekiel
* Daniel
* Hosea
* Joel
* Amos
* Obadiah
* Jonah
* Micah
* Nahum
* Habakkuk
* Zephaniah
* Haggai
* Zechariah
* Malachi

+*New Testament*+
* Matthew
* Mark
* Luke
* John
* Acts
* Romans
* 1 Corinthians
* 2 Corinthians
* Galatians
* Ephesians
* Philippians
* Colossians
* 1 Thessalonians
* 2 Thessalonians
* 1 Timothy
* 2 Timothy
* Titus
* Philemon
* Hebrews
* James
* 1 Peter
* 2 Peter
* 1 John
* 2 John
* 3 John
* Jude
* Revelation



h2. About YouVersion

YouVersion is an online Bible tool that offers 41 Bible versions in over 20 languages. At YouVersion.com, you can read the Bible in an innovative format, share your Bible reading experience with your friends, create Contributions with rich media and Journal entries that are tied to passages of Scripture, or subscribe to one of our 22 Bible reading plans.

YouVersion.com has given you the ability to engage with Scripture like never before, and with YouVersion mobile you have access to the Bible, corresponding contributions, reading plans, and online community no matter where you are. Our YouVersion mobile apps put the YouVersion experience in the palm of your hand. Apps are available for the iPhone, iPod Touch, Blackberry, Android, Palm's WebOS, Java, and the mobile web.

Learn more about our mobile Bible applications at "http://youversion.com/mobile":http://youversion.com/mobile


h2. Change Log

+*Mar 27th, 2010: 1.1.0*+

* Feature: Now works in both EE 1.6.x and EE 2.x

*Mar 24th, 2010: 1.0.2*

* Feature: Added "class" parameter for custom defining of anchor tag classes
* Bug: Multiple lines parsed incorrectly
* Note: Updated README and usage docs to reflect new "class" parameter
* Note: Changed most of the code to work with multiple matches within {exp:youversion} tags

*Mar 23rd, 2010: 1.0.1*

* Fixed typo in books array

*Mar 22nd, 2010: 1.0.0*

* Initial Release